## Welcome to GitHub Pages

You can use the [editor on GitHub](https://github.com/NovaCahill/MY-BLOG/edit/master/index.md) to maintain and preview the content for your website in Markdown files.

Whenever you commit to this repository, GitHub Pages will run [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to rebuild the pages in your site, from the content in your Markdown files.

### Weekly Updates
You can find my weekly updates down below: 


/*------------------------------*/

Week 1 Reflection: 

  This week’s readings constituted a series of investigation about the pre-history of the nowadays Internet. Carey’s Technology and
  Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph and Wu’s The Master Switch formed a analytical introduction about the telegraph as the predecessor 
  of internet, and Wu brought some general ideas about research and development of novel technologies. Gillespie, along with Dourish’s 
  work, provided a rather technical analysis about the general architectures of Internet structure. 
  

  Carey’s article took a socio-technological approach to analyzing the technological and ideological significances of telegraph as what
  the author called the “foundation of the electrical goods industry” (2, Carey). The article analyzed the role telegraph played in the
  developing industrial America. The telegraph not only was the landmark of science and engineering based management methodologies
  (notably for its role played in railway system) and industries, it was also a watershore in communication for the important changes such 
  medium of communicator bought to moral, linguistic and economic realms. For the first time a novel, universal language was developed, 
  and instead of physical carriers the electric signals became the mediator of communication. Moreover, the telegraph separated the 
  communication from physical transportation, and thus new business and managerial doctrines became possible. The humane elements, namely
  the personal interactions, were thus gradually replaced by telegraphic communication over spaces. And the instantaneous nature of 
  telegraphic communications paved the road for trade against times, namely the future contracts. The author investigated the telegraph 
  and how it replaced the traditional means of communications with envisioned and active form of scientific extension. And it also touched
  the fact that such a product not only fostered the creation of industrial empires like the West Union, but eventually it also straggled 
  in such monopolistic circumstances built by those giants. This discussion about technology and the monopolies was followed in Wu’s work,
  where the author mentioned the (rather spiral in my understanding) “cycle” of technological products: the search for business efficiency
  boosted and constrained such development at the same time, and hence gave the birth to rather new technologies as the old ones reached
  their bottlenecks.
  

  The second part of this week’s readings investigated the internet’s technological histories along with some debates over it through the
  engineering and designer’s aspects of such developments. In particular, Gillespie’s work was a discourse about the term “end-to-end” and 
  how this notion affected the cultural negotiations about the internet, ranging from the discourse about the basic architectures and 
  social construction of internet development to copyright disputes. The author collectively referred works from Saltzer, Reed, and Clark
  to describe the notion of  “end-to-end” as a principle to unite “scattered set of design strategies”. And Gillespie moved forward to
  investigate the usage of such notion outside of the engineer’s circle and how such “symbolic shape of internet” interacted with resent
  discourses about digital copyrights. The “end-to-end” appeared from early discourses about internet structure and was used to describe 
  either the adjunction of networks, the particular route of a specific packed data, or the network’s capacity to handles terminal 
  functions in the entire system. In a specific example the author illustrated how this terminology embedded itself into the dispute about
  digital copyrights. The user wanted the free information but the industries advocated the restrictions. The debate was rather
  intensified with the introduction of p2p file-trading system. Thus the term “end-to-end” transformed from a mere technical term to a
  certain iconographic and even philosophical principle, and in the case of file-trading and copyrights, such terms was referred to where
  the “power” of network should be located. Furthermore, Dourish’s work served as the complement of Gillespie’s discussion by introducing
  the concept of “other-nets” as the alternative envisions of internet design and principles, along with some technical introductions
  about the general design and topologies of such alternatives.
  
Bibliography:

Carey, James W. Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph, Taylor & Francis, 2009, pp. 155-177. 

Dourish, Paul. “Not the Internet, but This Internet: How Othernets Illuminate Our Feudal Internet”, ResearchGate, ResearchGate, 5 Oct 
    2015, 
    https://www.researchgate.net/publication/283683127_Not_The_Internet_but_This_Internet_How_Othernets_Illuminate_Our_Feudal_Internet
  
Gillespie, Tarleton. “Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet.” Social Studies of Science, vol. 36, no. 3,
    2006, pp. 427–457. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/25474452.

Wu, Tim. “Esperanto for Machines.” The Master Switch, The Rise and Fall of Information Empires, Alfred A. Knopf, 2011, pp. 196-203.







/*--------------------------------*/

Week 2 blog coming very soon


/*-------------------------------*/

Week 3 Reflections about Self-Portrait

The original idea of building my hypertext collage as a self-portrait was inspired by the works of Picasso, particularly by his
revolutionary cubist work Still Life with Chair Caning. This work was celebrated for being modern art’s first collage, and it introduced
the practice of embodiment, implementation and reinterpretation of commercial preexisting objects into the traditional realm of painting.
For example a hard-textured rope was used to serve as the edge of this work. Personally I find his idea of collaging somewhat resembled 
the idea of documenting with hyper-links and hypertexts, as it can be seen that Picasso “attached” some “hyper-linkable” premade artifacts
to his collage and thus created a novel sense of connection between his work and the reality. 


In terms of page design, I separated the entire page into three blocks, each containing three layers: introductory front page, sub-layer,
and the gallery. The blocks are represented by three primary colors. This idea comes from a famous abstract work by Mondrian, namely the
Composition with Red Blue and Yellow in 1930. His work abstracted the practice of painting to its purest level with merely the primary
colors along with the horizontal and vertical lines, resembling the fundamental elements of painting. For my web design, the introductory
pages and their sub-layers incorporated some minimalist approaches as I decided to reduce the format of the page into its most fundamental
and functional elements, specifically the comments and clickable hyperlinks. I used some template scripts provided by w3schools for the
galleries, attempted to resemble the practice of using premade artifacts as Picasso and Duchamp, and thus intended to represent a rather
increasing maturity and complexity of the page formats.


This project helped me better understand the implementation and structures of hypertexts we used in our daily lives. And it made the
points from the article What Hypertext is by Noah Wardrip-Fruin more vivid. The article itself provided a rather brief, historical
introduction about the form and implication of hypertext concepts. And as one of the short definition by Theodor Holm Nelson (the funder
of hypertext concept) the author quoted, the hypermedia constituted by hyper links were based on a rather simple and concise concept that
such links constructed an interconnected complex that “it could not conveniently be presented or represented on paper”(Noah 2). Some other
characteristics of hypertexts, discoursed by Tim in the article Information Management: A Proposal, are also tested in this project. In 
terms of the webpage I designed, it is indeed decentralized and rather the collage constitutes parallel blocks. By using hyperlinks the
reader can navigate back and forth internally in between the blocks and galleries, swiftly access existing data uploaded to the file. The
readers can also use external links that direct them to sources from other websites, and in turn the hypertext included these outside
sources into my own document.


I find the process of building this webpage rather enjoyable (besides dealing with unfamiliar github UI), educational and enlightening. In
addition, I hided some secret links on the front page with some stenographical tricks for some personal amusements.

Berners-Lee, Tim, Information Management: A Proposal, CERN, Mar 1989, May 1990, pp.7.

Wardrip-Fruin, Noah, What Hypertext Is, Brown University, nd, pp.2.

   




# Header 1
## Header 2
### Header 3

- Bulleted
- List

1. Numbered
2. List

**Bold** and _Italic_ and `Code` text

[Link](url) and ![Image](src)
```

For more details see [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/).

### Jekyll Themes

Your Pages site will use the layout and styles from the Jekyll theme you have selected in your [repository settings](https://github.com/NovaCahill/MY-BLOG/settings). The name of this theme is saved in the Jekyll `_config.yml` configuration file.

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Pages? Check out our [documentation](https://help.github.com/categories/github-pages-basics/) or [contact support](https://github.com/contact) and we’ll help you sort it out.
